docs: improve custom instrumentation docs (#1702)
vaadin/docs: articles/tools/observability/advanced/custom-instrumentation.asciidoc

= Custom Instrumentation

> The default instrumentations of the Vaadin Observability agent provide a reasonable amount of information out of the box, but can not cover all the specifics of an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default instrumentation of the Vaadin Observability agent provides a reasonable amount of data out of the box, but can not cover all the specifics of an application.
```

> Writing custom instrumentations allows to collect application-specific telemetry data for possibly problematic places or performance hotspots of an application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Writing custom instrumentation allows collecting application-specific telemetry data for possibly problematic places or performance hotspot of an application.
```

Reviewer 2: I'd say this is better:

```suggestion
Writing custom instrumentation allows the collection of application-specific telemetry data for possibly problematic places or performance hotspots of an application.
```

(Yes putting 'hotspot' back to plural was on purpose)

Reviewer: If running with hotspots then you should also add it to `.github/styles/Vocab/Docs/accept.txt`

Reviewer 2: I wonder if the language checker only recognises the singular form in the context of Hotspot JVM? As far as I can see, in this context it can be styled at either 'hot spots' or 'hotspots', with the latter being more common.

== Customizing Traces

> Custom instrumentations allow to record the execution of a specific piece of code as a span which gets automatically added to the current trace, and provide additional details such as attributes and errors.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Custom instrumentation allows recording the execution of a specific piece of code as a span which gets automatically added to the current trace, and to provide additional details such as attributes and errors.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Custom instrumentation allows the execution of a specific pieces of code to be recorded as spans, which get automatically added to the current trace, and to provide additional details such as attributes and errors.
```

</dependency>
----

Custom spans can be added either by using annotations, or by using the OpenTelemetry API to create and end spans manually.
The following sections provide instructions for each of these methods.

=== Using Annotations

The easiest way to add custom spans is to annotate methods whose executions should be recorded with the `@WithSpan` annotation:

[source,java]
----
import io.opentelemetry.instrumentation.annotations.WithSpan;

public class ImageListView {
  @WithSpan
  public void fetchImages() {
      // execution code
  }
}
----

> Method parameters can be added as attribute to the span by using the `@SpanAttibute` annotation:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Method parameters can be added as attributes to the span by using the `@SpanAttibute` annotation:
```

----

[NOTE]
The OpenTelemetry API version should match the version that is used by the Vaadin Observability agent.

> <Do this to get the version used by the agent>

Author: How can someone figure out which version the agent is using?

> The OpenTelemetry API version should match the version that is used by the Vaadin Observability agent.
> <Do this to get the version used by the agent>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The OpenTelemetry API version should match the version that is used by the Vaadin Observability agent.
The used version is available in the release notes and can be seen when running the JavaAgent.
```

        "1.0");
        final Span span = trace.spanBuilder("My Problematic Task").startSpan();
        try {
            // Record start of the operation as span
            span.addEvent("Image fetch start");

            // load images...

            // Add event with attributes
            Attributes attributes = Attributes.builder().put("images.count", 42).build();
            span.addEvent("Images loaded", attributes);
        } finally {
            span.end();
        }
    }
}
----

> Spans should be marked as error if the executed code fails, and exceptions can be recorded as span event, which provides detailed information such as exception type and stracktrace when looking at the traces.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Spans should be marked as error if the code execution fails, and exceptions can be recorded as span event, which provides detailed information such as exception type and stracktrace when looking at the traces.
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Spans should be marked as error if the code execution fails, and exceptions can be recorded in a span event, which provides detailed information such as exception type and stracktrace when looking at the traces.
```
